# Linux Volume Management

## 1. `Introduction to Linux Volumes and AWS EBS`

Storage (Volumes -> Disk -> Blocks)

EBS (Elastic block store) :: Lets us to create volumes and attach it with the EC2 instance

```bash
$ lsblk     # List blocks
$ df -h     # Disk Metadata
```

Mount :: Binding a particular block with the root level location, called mounting.

- Create EC2 instance
- Elastic Block Store
  - Volumes
  - Create
  - Now, its available to attach/mount with the instance.
- Select the block which we want to attach/mount with the instance
- Click on action
- Click on Attach Volume
- Select instance
- Assign device name
  - /dev/sda (Root volume)
  - /dev/sdf (External data volume) -> Transform -> xvdf
- Attach volume

We have successfully attached the volume with the instance but as of now it's mount point is empty. Because, after attaching a volume we need to mount that block/volume explicitly with that instance.

```bash
$ lsblk     # List blocks
```

## 2. `Physical vs Logical Volumes vs Volume Groups in Linux`

- **Physical Volume (PV):** A raw storage device (e.g., HDD, SSD, or partition) initialized for use with LVM.

- **Volume Group (VG):** A pool of storage created by combining multiple physical volumes, allowing flexible allocation.

- **Logical Volume (LV):** A virtual partition created from a volume group, which can be resized or moved easily, acting like a traditional partition.

```bash
$ sudo su
$ lvm
$ pvcreate <physical_volume_1> <physical_volume_2> <physical_volume_3> ..n  # Create physical volumes
$ pvs   # Check physical volumes
```

```bash
$ vgcreate <volume_group_name> <physical_volume_name> ..n
$ vgs   # List volue groups
```

- Disk/Block
- Physical Group
- Volume Group
- Logical Volume

```bash
$ lvcreate -L 10G (SIZE) -n <logical_volume_name> <volume_group>
$ pvdisplay     # Metadata about Physical volume
$ vgdisplay     # Metadata about volume group
$ lvdisplay     # Metadata about logical volume
```

## 3. `Mounting Volumes in Linux`

```bash
$ lvs   # List Logical Volumes
```

- Create a temporary directory for mounting

  ```bash
    mkdir /mnt/<name>
    mkdir /mnt/tws_lv_mount
  ```

- Format the logical volume

  ```bash
    mkfs.ext4 <logical_volume_path>
    mkfs.ext4 /dev/tws_vg/tws_lv
  ```

- Mount the logical volume

  ```bash
    mount <source_path (where the logical volume is located)> <destination_path (where we want to mount)>
    mount /dev/tws_vg/tws_lv /mnt/tws_lv_mount
  ```

- Check
  ```bash
    lsblk
    df -h
  ```

Now, we can use the logical volume as a storage device.

We need to mount the volume that we have attached with the instance.

```bash
$ umount <logical_volume_path>
```

## 4. `Managing AWS EBS on EC2 Instance`

- Create a mount location

  ```bash
    mkdir /mnt/<name>
    mkdir /mnt/tws_disk_mount
  ```

- Format the disk
  <br/>
  This is not a logical volume, its a disk instead. So, there is a little bit difference to format it.

  ```bash
    mkfs -t ext4 <disk_file_path>
  ```

- Mount it.
  ```bash
    mount <source_path> <destination_path>
    mount /dev/xvdh /mnt/tws_disk_mount/
  ```

```bash
$ df -h     # Verify
```

## 5. `Introduction to LVM (Logical Volume Manager)`

**Logical Volume Manager (LVM)** is a flexible and powerful storage management system in Linux that allows dynamic allocation of disk space. It abstracts physical storage devices and provides logical partitions that can be resized, moved, and managed easily without downtime. LVM enables advanced features like snapshots, thin provisioning, and volume resizing, making it ideal for modern server environments.

## 6. `Using LVM with EBS for Dynamic Storage Management (Notes)`

```bash
$ lvm
$ lvmextend -L 5G /dev/tws_vg/tws_lv
$ df -h
$ lsblk
```
